2013/02/20
Luke responds to your messages.

Right-click here to download this episode. 
Thank you very much for your emails and comments over the last few months! I am going to reply to some of them here.
I get loads of emails in my inboxes and unfortunately there’s no way I can respond to them all. I’d end up spending all my time at my computer and that’s neither possible nor healthy. Nevertheless, please continue to send me messages. I really love hearing from you. I find it motivating and encouraging. Also, your messages tell me a lot about the people I am talking to on the podcast.
There are lots of ways to get in touch with me: FB, twitter, comments on Pod, comments on Blog, emails, youtube comments, youtube emails, LinkedIn, AudioBoo etc. I appreciate your messages, but I can’t always respond. I like it best when people leave comments on this website, either under episodes of in the forum (click the Discussion Forums link in the menu above).
Below you can read some comments, messages and questions I have received in the last few months. In the podcast you can listen to me responding to these comments. This is just a selection of some of the messages I’ve had. Not every comment is included here. Some I have already replied to or dealt with before.
THE BACKGROUND MUSIC is all produced/made by my brother. You can check out his youtube channel here to listen to more tunes.
COMMENTS, MESSAGES AND QUESTIONS (I reply to these during the episode)
I just listened to your first podcast and I was wondering, do I have to do the ‘interactive’ things (like asking questions, etc.,) now? I mean, the first one is not new so I don’t know if I’m supposed to do it or not.
Rei
hello,luke!how are u doing?i am ABDENOUR from Algeria and I am a regular listener of your podcasts.in fact I do listen to them almost everyday.yet,it’s been a long time since u haven’t recorded a podcast;we do miss your qualitative and educative podcasts really!luke,can I ask you afavour? i would really like it if u record some podcasts on british culture.that would be a mind-boggling thing really…
October – XxxYyy wrote:
Have you ever said something more about collocations? I just realized how important they’re to sound naturally.
ps. Have you mentioned Radiohead in the latest episode? Was in used just as an example or not? If not, high five! Their music has grown on me recently. So much I’m die hard fan now.
Thanks for sharing your awesomeness with all of us.
Don’t let wild city cats to eat you.
Somebody left a comment on your episode:
Wow! Sorry Luke for asking you to do something unnecessary, you are not only a great Master in English,but also an awesome computer teacher.
Carlos Vega (cool name)
Hi Luke!! what’s up?
Please, can I ask you a question? I need your help about an english issue…
Take a look please:
1) I’ve got several fruits in the kitchen, such as apples, oranges, bananas,…
2) I’ve got several fruits in the kitchen, for example apples, oranges, bananas,…
3) I’ve got several fruits in the kitchen, for instance apples, oranges, bananas,…
My question is: are all them correct sentences?? If so…which one would you use?? (I mean, as a native speaker, which one is the most common??)
Thanks in advance, I’m really following your podcasts as I told you on my last email, good job man.
Cheers from Barcelona…Spain :p
lloydo commented on Messing Around with Accents and Voices
I love talking about accents with my students. As a Canadian I like to point out how my English is different from Standard American – which from the point of view of a Brit probably isn’t that big. It’s also pretty interesting to talk about what you can learn about a person from their accent; there is actually quite a lot! It’s also great to get them thinking about accents in their own language too.
Hi, I’m Chiara from Italy and I NEED to improve my english because my boyfriend leave Italy to stay in Ireland. So I think this is a nice way to try to reduce the “distance” :) thank you!
Somebody left a comment on your episode:
Hey Luke, this has been really an interesting and different kind of podcast. When you said that there is probably someone out with that profile I thought it could be me becouse a few weeks ago I had a dream in wich you appeared. I dont know why I was in your flat and I dont know why I had the flat´s key either. I just remember that you were there with your girlfriend and we had a normal conversation ( but it was kinda strange becouse we talked to each other as we have met before when it wasnt really like that ). I think I had that dream becouse sometimes I listen to your podcast before I go to bed. But definitely Im not the person from your profile lol. Take care Luke.
Hi teacher Luke, My name’s Diego Lucas and I really want to thank you for all your videos on youtube, they are all very usefull to me.
Teacher, I really want to understand why sometimes I can understand every single word that you speak and it’s so hard to understand people that speak to you on your videos.
Greeting from Brazil, Sao Paulo.
Hello Luke,
I’m Thomas, Frenchman currently settled in China, I’m from Lille, maybe you heard of it since it’s not far from England. I’m moving to the English-speaking part of Canada next year and try to improve my English by listening Pod casts , series, reading novels or  using any material I can find through the internet.  I stumbled upon yours today and really appreciate it, I’ll recommend it to all my English learning Chinese friends, keep up the good work, please. I can fairly well understand English but never have the chance to speak it. During my first weeks in Canada, I’m going to stay in a farm where I’ll work as a volunteer, I want to make a good first impression  and I fear not to be able to socially interact properly. How to use words in English to sound polite, how to make jokes, what is culturally acceptable to joke about without sounding like a jerk. There are that kind of nuances in my own language and I’m sure it’s the same in English. Do you what I mean ?
Hi Luke,
I am a teacher of English in Russia and I’d like to thank u for the podcasts I can use at my lessons.
I wonder how u find time for such lots of work. Are u married?
Best regards,
Igor
Hi Dear Luke.
First of all I would like to say thank you. I started listening to your podcast.
I’ve found very useful your podcast for me.
I have some question for you:
– Where is your school located. Is your school as language schools – St Giles International or Malvern House?
– Do you have a private English lesson via Skype? If you have, how much does it cost per hour?
www.londonenglishclasses.com – This is my friend Martin Aaron’s website. He offers Skype lessons. Check him out if you’re interested.
Hi Luke,
I’m Nina from Germany. I started listening to your podcast because I wanted to improve my (spoken) english. English is one of my – I don’t know how you call it, but I’d say “main subject” in school, I have it 4 times a week.(and I’m going to take my A-Levels in it and maths)
Besides I just really like London and the UK and I’d love to have an british accent ;)
Well, I wondred if you could do something about Harry Potter?
I’m a huge fan and I think it’s just so british.
A podcast about Harry Potter or about what you brits think about it would be great.
Thank you and keep on with your good work,
Nina
It’s me again
Sorry, I forgot something:
A podcast about style or british designers (I love Burberry) would be nice too.
And I think it would be really interesting to hear which prejudices there are about Germans, Frenchmen,…. in the UK or what people imagine a “typical” German etc. to be/act/ look like.
Now that’ all. I won’t annoy again ;),
Nina
Dmitry
I think past perfect sentences are easier to understand than present perfect. :)
I got on a train today in the morning and I saw a girl which was sitting alone. I realised that I had never met such a beautiful girl in my whole life. I came closer and said to her – HELLO! :)
About the sick in Japan episode
Somebody left a comment on your episode:
Thanks Luke for sharing such an interesting experience, at times your report sounds kind of a fight for survival! For some reason it’s more amusing to tell not so nice travel experiences rather than the good ones :-) I spent a month volunteering in a Gloucestershire farm two years ago, leaving Italy with a few stitches on my shoulder. A nurse in the farm removed them but she wasn’t so confident and eventually said: “You’d better go to a clinic”. I feared an infection since I felt pain, anyway it was nothing serious. Something similar may happen when you travel off the beaten track, but it’s definitely worth it! By the way, antibiotics are useless and even harmful for mononucleosis, that’s why you had a rash.
evgenia derevnina left a comment on your episode:
It’s 4 a.m here in Irkutsk. Outside around 15 degrees below zero. I can’t sleep (too much energy probably) So instead of wasting time rolling over in bed, decided to listen to another Luke’s podcast. Thank you again Luke that we have you.
evgenia derevnina left a comment on your episode:
This is a great real life episode! Luke must be a very brave person to have got through all this experience. It’s just impossible to stay calm while listening to it. Man! It was hard! Thank you for sharing your wisdom with us. Be healthy and happy in all your lives! I remember once staying in India in may, in a valley of Kangra District. It was about +40C or more, very hot and humid, I noticed you can’t even think properly in such heat. some friends slept on the roofs at night, but it didn’t help anyway. There was no air-conditioning, just fans in the rooms. Don’t know why I just kept on drinking hot tea with milk,it felt good drinking hot tea while the air was hot too.
Cheers.
Hi Luke,
I’ve just started to listen your podcast and I’m very grateful to you for the work you’ve done. About the podcast n 2, I’ve found really difficult to understand the meaning of some sentences said by you and your father during your interview; especially when you use expressions like these: Mind you you do see (why here Rick uses do + verbs)
Luke! One of my friend who is an english speaker said, “i am going back to ‘me’ home.”
Is that wrong? because he is native speaker so…
Thx!
Billy
LENA
Hi Luke,
What’s meaning of “half 12”?
I know American got anyother way to say it, but what is it?
thanks!!
Billy
 Zahid
Hi Luke
sorry to disturb you. i just to want to ask u a question.Which is the correct sentence.?
who do you live with?
or
whom do you live with?
I am a bit confused about the use of who and whom.
Thanks
 
luke,
In what situation will you use ‘he don’t’ instead of ‘he doesn’t’?
Thanks a lot!
Billy
Somebody left a comment on your episode:
Brillant!!!! Very nice episode, I enjoyed every second!!! Thanks!!
Super Luke!! How’re you?
Still podcasting?? I’m still on my way to improve my english, so listening to your podcasts in between of doing CAE exams! Also reading some grammar…actually I wanted to ask you if you could help me with some short issues, please? I’d be very pleased if you do that Luke since I’m not attending any lessons in my city, I’m just studying on my own! (I think at certain level is much better and fast to study in that way…anyway I’ll go to some lessons maybe 1 or 2 month before the CAE exam)
1) Well…first af all I’ve read a sentence like this:
NEITHER MARGARET NOR JOHN WAS THERE
Question: Why ‘was’ and not ‘were’? Margaret and John…two people…so should be ‘were’ no? (no because it’s ‘neither – nor’)
2) Which one would be the correct preposition after the verb TO BE FED UP??
3) in the morning, in the afternoon, in the evening, at night, at midday……ARE ALL THEM CORRECT?
Hanouf left a comment on your episode:
You don’t mind if try to add to your list of expressions do you? How about saying: Mind how you go as a way to say bye. 
 
Dear “Mister. Bean”, I’m delighted reading your Paris notes! Do you teach only English? Don’t you teach English Literature or Philosohpy? You’ve got a nice sense of humour and you are just a very good person. Have you read something from Russian Literature? (Olga)
NEW TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE from Crista Bartels and other listeners. Episodes 1-6 are now fully transcribed, and a lot of other episodes. Keep checking the blog for more transcripts in the future.
Hello Luke,
It is me, Andrew again, one of the student addicted to your podcasts.
I found having transcript or at least more difficult phrases indispensable part of my method of learning English which is:
1. listening to the material at least twice
2. writing down everything exactly what is said there
3. reading aloud following the speaker, sentence after sentence
4. moving useful words, phrases, expressions, sentences etc. to SuperMemo application
5. and of course trying to used all of that stuff during lessons with my local teacher of English, who is really great too.
Thank you for your really great job. I appreciate it very much.
— Best wishes,
Andrzej
It’s now been 11 days since ZAHID sent you an ecard.
Luis commented on What is this?
Hi Luke!!! This is Luis from Spain.
I just arrive to London two months ago, and i have been listening the people, they usually use a lot of verbs ended with up or off…
Could you please make a podcast with the most common verbs that you use ending with up, off,down…?
Thank you so much
Great work
Hello, Luke
How are you?  Are you in England with your family or in France?  Wherever you are, a happy new year!
The last three or four months, I have not be able to make donation due to Japanese law (they say).  Every time I try to, they say:  PayPal does not currently support Donation Payments from buyers in JP. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.
Actually, it is extremely inconvenient!!  I would appreciate if you give me some advice of any other way to donate, so that I can support you and enjoy your wonderful podcast.  Many Japanese must have this kind of problem, I guess.  Please help us to make a donation.
With best regards,
moriya
I am writing just to thank you for doing the Luke’s English Podcast!
Sometimes I focus so much on the listening that I start smiling or even laughing with my headphones on, while no one around knows what is going on. Then I feel a bit stupid because some people start looking at me like I was a freak or something :D
But whatever…I will keep listening because it’s just fun!
Best regards,
Michaela
listener from Prague, Czech Republic
Daniel commented on Who is Luke?
Hi,
I enjoy your lessons and would like to donate as you actually deserve it.
Unfortunately I’m unable to find where is the link with Paypal in your site.
Could you help me please ?
Daniel
An elder english learner and lover.
New comment on your post “Episode 4 – Joaquin Phoenix”
Author : gerardo
URL :
Whois : whois.arin.net/rest/ip/186.79.136.177
Comment:
Hello. I’m gerardo from Chile ;) I was wondering what’s the difference between he may have an emotional problem and he may be having an emotional problem ;) that’s it thanks for your podcasts ;))) bye
hi luke, just wanna ask how do you read the word “negotiation”? ne-go-she-a-tion or ne-go-c-a-tion?
THX
billy
*Billy always asks me very quick and very specific questions. They’re pretty easy for me to answer, so he usually gets a response. If you do ask me a question, make it quick and specific. Very long and very open questions are much less likely to get responses. I don’t have time to write an essay. Please don’t ask me questions like “How do I  improve my pronunciation?” – it’s too big a question to get a response from me, know what I mean?
Hello
I like your podcasts very much and i have a question about learning english.
You said Try to speak in english with people more.
Could you recommend me a website where i can speak with other people in english (voice chat) ?
Best wishes
Gábor
www.sharedtalk.com/ (If anyone else knows any good sites for this, please leave comments below ;)
Luca Ricci
Hi, I’ve got a question about the use of “ain’t”.
I’ve noticed that you never use it in your podcasts and i don’t remember to have heard it from any of your guests.
In some website I’ve read that it represents an american semi-unpolite grammar form and it should be better not to use it. What do you think about that?
