2009/10/20


Right-click here to download this episode.
Luke’s English Podcast is free and available to download as often as you like. It is designed to help learners of English with their vocabulary, listening and pronunciation. Also, Luke’s English Podcast aims to introduce you to unique aspects of the British cultural experience. This podcast is about music festivals during the summer months in The UK.
Hello folks, and welcome to Luke’s English Podcast. I’ve been to a few festivals this summer, so this podcast is about Music Festivals! So, relax, put your feet up, have a cup of tea (or whatever you might drink in your country: green tea, chai, jasmine, white tea, oolong cha, Japanese Sencha, peppermint tea, instant coffee, fresh coffee, Turkish coffee, South American coffee, Italian coffee, coffee from wherever it is made in the world anywhere, beer, wine, water, juice, coconut milk, cow’s milk, goat’s milk, kangaroo milk, blood (if you’re from Transylvania), and enjoy the podcast. Cheers. 
Here are some key words and sentences from the podcast: 
 A few little fluffy clouds dotted around in the sky
I’m a bit sunburned
He’s very influential and a great musician.
He plays his guitar very loud, and he uses lots of feedback and distortion.
They sleep in tents in large camp-sites.
The arena has a number of large stages where bands can perform.
It’s a bit like going back to medieval times.
Thousands of people sleeping ‘in tents’ is quite ‘intense’.
There’s loads of good music and bands.
You can find out about new bands.
There’s lots of local beers and ciders that you can drink.
They’ve got distinctive tastes.
Cider is an alcoholic drink which is made from apples.
You can get out of London, escape from London.
It’s like a little mini home.
They do ‘jerk chicken‘.
It’s been marinated and soaked in a sort of sauce.
You get to meet lots of interesting people there.
You meet friends of friends and then they become your friends, and you can add them as a friend on Facebook.
It’s a great opportunity to show people your music.
It gives the music industry a big boost every year.
Sometimes it can be a nightmare.
If you can imagine thousands of people gathered together in a field, and it rains, you’re going to get loads of mud everywhere.
It’s a bit like a disaster zone. It could be classed by the UN as a disaster zone.
You get lakes of mud. It’s disgusting.
You might get over-excited and drink too much, and you wake up with a bad hangover.
A tent in direct sunlight. It magnifies the sun and you just cook in the tent.
You don’t have a very good night’s sleep.
He was snoring in my ear.
They really rip you off. The prices are ridiculous. It’s a rip off.
It’s difficult to walk through the crowd.
The toilets are very smelly and disgusting.
Doing a number 1 isn’t so bad, especially if you’re a bloke.
Doing a number 2 for anyone is difficult. You need toilet roll.
It’s difficult to get to the festival and get back. You need to get on a train and travel across the country.
It’s a real mission just to get out of the festival.
You need a few days to recover.
You might be exhausted at the end.
You have to go back to work and be normal even though you’re exhausted.
It’s like a massive crowd of zombies, all sort of shabbling [not a word] about or shuffling around.
Mobile phone reception is so bad. The signal gets weak. You can’t call because there’s no reception.
If the tent is on a slope, if it’s on an angle you might not be able to sleep.
You’re back aches, and your feet ache. By the end you’re kind of broken by the festival.
The Green Man Festival Website.
