2016/01/20
Hello listeners – this episode is all about the Luke’s English Podcast photo competition which I launched in December in episode 313. I’ve received loads of photos from listeners and they’re now presented on the page for this episode on my website, and they look fantastic, so please do have a look at them! In this episode I’m going to tell you how you can vote in the competition, and I’m also going to teach you some specific vocabulary and expressions for describing photographs, which is particularly useful if you’re taking a Cambridge exam like FCE or CAE. That’s what’s going to to happen in this episode, so let’s go!

[DOWNLOAD]
Thank you if you’ve made a donation – you’re basically keeping LEP alive, I hope you realise that. If you want to show your appreciation for LEP you can – just click a donate button on the website and make a contribution (the amount is totally up to you).  LEP is also made possible through some sponsorship from Audible.com. Basically, I get a small referral when my listeners sign up to a trial with Audible, which is basically Amazon’s audiobook service. The trial lasts 30 days, and includes a free audiobook download of your choice. Normally they’re 20-30 dollars each, but you can get one free with this offer. You can download any book you like, and if you don’t like the service, just cancel and keep the book, no strings attached.
If you’re wondering which audiobook to get, let me tell you about the bestselling audiobooks on Audible.com this week. #1 is called The Now Habit by Dr Neil Fiore and it’s all about skills and strategies for overcoming procrastination. #2 is Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone (or Sorcerer’s Stone in the USA) – yes, all the Harry Potter books are now available as audiobooks and they’re really popular – constantly in the top 10 downloads. In fact, the whole top 10 this week is filled with other Harry Potter books. Get the first one yourself and dive into the world of Hogwarts, Professor Snape and he who must not be named. The first book has a rating of 4.9 – which is outstanding. It’s read out by British actor Jim Dale, who according to reviews, does an excellent job of bringing the story to life. #3 in the list is The Martian by Andy Weir. It’s a novel which was recently made into a film with Matt Damon, directed by Ridley Scott. I really enjoyed the film – it was a witty and exciting story of a man who gets stuck on Mars during an expedition and has to find a way to survive – and how does he do it? Well, luckily he’s a botanist – that’s an expert on plants. So he decides to survive – and how does he do it? he creates a farm inside the space station and then grows potatoes in his own poo as fertiliser. That might sound disgusting but it’s actually really really resourceful and clever isn’t it! It’s one of the many original and intelligent things about the story. The film is oscar nominated and is very funny and gripping and apparently the book is even better than the film, which is usually the case. It’s got a rating of 4.8 out of 5 on Audible. Alright, so that’s the top 3 books on audible.com. Just go to teacherluke.co.uk/audible or click the audible logo on the website. That’s it, I’m now going to shut up about my sponsor, and move onto the photo competition. :)
The LEP photo competition entries are here! On the page for this episode [hello you’re reading it  right now!] (below) you can see all the photos which were sent to me in the competition, arranged in a randomly generated mosaic. I hope you agree that it looks really cool.
I hope I haven’t forgotten anyone’s photos. Remember that the only condition was that you included some evidence that you’re listening (e.g. headphones or an LEP logo or something). The closing date for the competition was the 15th of January, so it’s now way too late to send me your photos. Sorry if you only just found out about it now – you’ll just have to wait for the next competition to come along!
You can now vote on your favourite photo(s). Please see below for the voting rules.
It’s absolutely fantastic to get a window into the lives of my listeners, even just a little bit with these snapshots that some of you have sent to me. I know there are many more of you out there – I have a large army of LEP ninjas who like to lurk in the shadows and just listen, only coming out sometimes to leave a comment and then whoosh spring back over the wall and into the night! By the way, I’ve had quite a few first time comments from ninjas and it’s nice to hear from you.
Back to the photos – It’s great to see the different environments, landscapes and weather that you are in while listening. Also, it’s really good to see some of the faces of you my listeners around the world.
Many of the photos are very charming and also funny. There are some real gems in there! (a gem is a precious stone, but it’s also a word we use to describe something which you think is particularly good – e.g. someone you really like e.g. “She’s a real gem isn’t she?” or “there are some real gems in there” meaning, there are some particularly good photos in there) I’m very proud of my LEP community. Thanks for your photos!
It’s useful to know how to talk about photographs, especially if you have to describe them in a Cambridge exam like FCE. Here are some phrases that we typically use while doing it. Listen to the podcast to hear me demonstrate them.
I really think you should check out these photos. I think you’ll be pleasantly surprised. Overall it’s just brilliant to see all these images collected together as a whole, and to explore all the photos individually to see the different situations around the world in which you’re listening, and there are some real gems in there (a gem – this means something that’s particularly great – e.g. you’re a real gem!  = you’re great, and I like you a lot!). So, there are some real gems in there.  I’ll now let you explore the photos for yourselves.
A quick re-cap of the rules: Please please please vote for the one(s) that you like by using the word “choose” or “vote” in a comment under the photo(s) you are voting for. Also, please make any other comments that you want to express. I encourage you all to mention things you like about the images.
Voting closes on March 5, and then after that I’ll do another episode in which I announce the winner and talk in a bit more detail about the photos. Remember, the winner of the competition gets an LEP mug and a t-shirt or bag, and two runners up get an LEP mug each. Those are the prizes, but for me – it’s not the winning that counts, it’s the taking part.

Where can I find all the photos!? You might be asking. You can find them all by going to teacherluke.co.uk clicking on the red button that says LEP Photo Competition. That button will be on the right, just under the email subscription button and above the audible logo. Click that and it’ll take you to the page for this episode where you can see all the photos. Just scroll down past all this text that I’m reading, and bob’s your uncle.







				Gustavo Kotelchuk on the road
				




				Sergey Abakumoff – somewhere in Russia – spot the headphones
				




				Daria Bokova from Russia living China, cycling through the polluted streets
				




				Sara Viñas in Beijing China with a mask for pollution
				




				Paquan Satamparat in Thaliand with another LEP Ninja – turtley amazing
				




				Alexandr – listening in Moscow
				




				Guillaume driving with The Thompsons in Switzerland
				




				Kaline who listens everywhere!
				




				Vlad from Kharkiv in Ukraine, where it looks very cold indeed
				




				mynewlife.1900 – in China walking to the library while listening
				




				Anna Maria Chachulska (Polish girl living in Netherlands) and Kermit and a gin and tonic
				




				Gabriele De Rosa – emailing me while listening
				




				Carolina from Santiago Chile
				




				Weijia Wang from  China
				




				Alberto Pez – working at home surrounded by friends
				




				Adam  from Poland, now a sheet metal worker in Leicestershire in England
				




				Facundo Vilicich with a skipping rope in the PLaza Malvinas
				




				Charleston from Brazil – on the way to his girlfriend’s house in the middle of the night
				




				Ivy from China (nice name) who listens with her friend Lillian
				




				Tania from Chile now in Munich
				




				Valtesse Maria Thompson – hashtags are enough proof!
				




				Ariel Tsai (from China) marking her students homework
				




				Didar AR
				




				Sylke from Germany
				




				playdoh crow multitasking with a nude_potato
				




				Tetsro – shaving in Japan with Philip’s shaver – did you ask Philip before you borrowed it?
				




				Ewelina – keep on running! (with headphones on)
				




				Junji Yanagi, from Japan, who prefers walking than taking the train because it gives him more time to listen to LEP
				




				Thavorn Twinant from Thaliand in San Francisco
				




				Hideki from Japan and the Tokyo Skytree
				




				Maxi from San Nicolás, a small town of Argentina – with the view from his kitchen and a cup of mate (local tea)
				







				Guido in Milan – giving LEP some free publicity
				




				Simona from Romania – listening while gaming
				




				This is Sergio’s illustration of me as a Jedi in training. :D There’s another photo in the competition with Sergio doing the drawing – I consider them to be the same pic (this one https://teacherluke.co.uk/2016/01/20/327-the-lep-photo-competition-please-check-out-the-photos-and-vote/sergio-tellez-lep-jedi)
				




				Alexander in hospital in Russia – don’t worry he’s ok – and he’s listened to every single episode of LEP while recovering
				




				Cristian cooking for his British fiancee – who also is a lepster
				




				Алевтина  – bathroom routine
				




				Gabriel Reis
				




				Mayumi padawan learner from Japan just having seen Star Wars
				




				Dima Okun – listening all the time!
				




				Mike in Sri Lanka or India
				




				Alexey Алексей keeping an eye on the road in Russia
				




				Sergio Tellez LEP JEDI and artist! He decided to draw a picture of me as a Jedi in training! :D I’m Luke Skywalker, finally.
				




				Paulina from Poland – listening in the morning.
				




				Isabel from Bolivia now in Valencia Spain
				




				Marcin listening at work
				




				Fernando Calheiros Lima in a Sao Paulo traffic jam
				




				Jose, who listens while running to the toilet
				




				Quyền Cao commuting and listening
				




				Armando Torres driving in Mexico with the iztaccihuatl volcano in the background
				




				Emma Lee – LEP Ninja from Australia – in her 6 year old son’s room
				




				Mohsen from Iran
				




				romana from höflein, austria – running betwen vineyards
				




				Muhammed Zakariya – unknown location (charge your phone)
				




				丸山弘 – sorry I don’t know your name in English!
				




				Farid from Algeria now living in Montreal Canada
				




				Rozada on the sofa
				




				basma-salman listening in bed I think!
				




				Amir Khosh – the Dentist who listens to LEP
				




				ANTONIO – happy listener
				




				Francesco Lotto – a foggy day in Italy
				




				Vasyl Usik on a bike ride in Ukraine
				




				Marina F with her listening partner – Daniel
				




				Giovanni Fuschi – on the road with LEP
				




				Leila somewhere in Russia
				




				Aine Ito – LEP Ninja from Japan now studying in Edinburgh
				




				Denis (Bosnia and Herzegovina) during his Orchestra Rehearsal – apparently there was no percussion for a while so why not catch up on some LEP :)
				




				Yaron Aharonov in a traffic jam in Israel
				




				Alessandro from Rome on a ferry from France to England
				




				Joanna from Poland and her comments!
				




				Eric in France – raising a glass to LEP
				




				Jonatan Uriel Vidal Carmona in Mexico City
				




				Mateusz from Poland – and his LEP fish
				




				Anna – on the way from China to Vietnam
				




				Sabine from Germany – starting the day brushing her teeth in English :)
				




				Walter near Milan in Italy – highest listener?
				




				Sylke Strüber and her pet dog Robin in Germany
				




				Didar AR
				




				Gabriella in Italy – listening while doing the housework
				




				Kristina listening at -20 degrees C
				




				Sebastian from Poland – feeling good after a 5 km jog
				




				huda s – favourite place for listening
				




				Hunter in Taiwan listening with 14 day old son
				




				Carlos Rodríguez from Chile – multitasking
				




				Julia from Russia – a restorer who works with GOLD – note the golden LEP
				




				Ivan Irikov at the Gym
				




				Marina in Moscow
				




				Eeva Koittola – keeping warm
				




				Lê Phương Thảo sunrise after staying up all night studying
				




				javier – listening while at work in the Canary Islands
				




				A photo from Eri Taguchi (previously lost in my inbox!) who listens with blue headphones when she’s out and about. Here’s a Japanese train platform. Ah, Nihon 懐かしい !
				




				Achim Winter – Cooking with Luke, and Thomas
				




				Amaia Garcia – Bilbao in Basque Country – Guggenheim museum
				




				Anthony CP from Spain – listening in Northern Ireland
				




				Serezha Sergey from Moscow
				




				Esther and so many ginger biscuits
				




				Piotr Kraków Poland
				




				Kristina in Moscow – smiling despite the snowstorm
				




				Zdenek_Lukas in Czech Republic – always listens while cycling to work even in freezing conditions – don’t slip Zdenek!
				




				Meliana and bear in Wroclaw ( in Poland), which is this year European Capital of Culture
				




				Alex from Spain making delicious chocolate cookies with the kind help of her two girls
				




				Julien the French stonemason
				




				Julia from Minsk in Belarus
				




				Mark – LEP ninja China, Jiangxi province
				




				Mamen – waiting for the snow in Biescas in Spain
				




				Emília Hosszú – she nominated herself in the most boring category – in the UK I think
				




				A lovely photo of Renato in a typical listening situation
				




				Irina Lavrova – another frozen Lepster!
				




				Aleksey from Saratov, Russia
				




				Luke from Luke’s English Podcast – don’t vote for me, I already have an LEP mug ;)
				




				Petra from the Czech republic – distracted from phrasal verbs homework by LEP
				




