2016/08/12
Hello listeners, this episode features another chat with Alex Love who was on the podcast recently in episodes 366 and 367. I decided I’d get Alex back on the podcast for several reasons. The first reason is because he is now in Edinburgh at the Festival and his show seems to be doing very well. In fact, so far every performance has been completely sold out and he’s making a nice profit. I’m happy to hear that and I thought we could get a little Edinburgh report and actually have a conversation without it being derailed by a poor internet connections and other distractions, and that’s what we’ve managed to do. The second reason I brought him on is to do our own LEP Pub Quiz in which we ask each other questions, and that’s what you’ll hear in part 2.

[DOWNLOAD]
I have divided this conversation into two parts again, to make it more manageable for you. In part one we talk about Alex’s show, some details about the culture of pub quizzes in the UK and we go off on several quite instructive tangents about stag and hen parties, male strippers, The Smurfs and the anatomy of giant squid, which are large sea creatures with tentacles. That sounds quite random but it’s not really. It’s actually perfectly logical and it will all become clear as you listen to the conversation, and I think there’s quite a lot to learn about British culture in this episode as you’ll see. There’s also quite a lot of vocabulary to watch out for and I will go through that in a moment.
Then in part 2 you’ll hear Alex and I playing our own pub quiz in which we ask each other various questions in order to test our general knowledge.
I expect that by the time you listen to this episode Alex’s Edinburgh show will probably be over and all his shows seem to be sold out anyway, but what the hell – I’ll mention the details of it anyway. It’s called “How to Win a Pub Quiz” and it takes place at 12 o’clock lunchtime at The Stand in rooms 5 & 6 until 14 August. Details and bookings tickets.edfringe.com/whats-on/alex-love-how-to-win-a-pub-quiz
I’ve made another list of words and phrases from this episode. This is language that you might not know and which you might want to learn. I’m not defining and explaining this vocabulary here, I’m just encouraging you to notice it, and hopefully making it a bit easier for you to notice it. Being mindful of language while you’re listening to this podcast is important. If you’re switched on and attentive, taking mental note of different features of English as you move through these episodes, you’re in a much better position to retain words and phrases and add them to your own active vocabulary. Also, if you’re into studying while you listen you will find all these phrases written on the page for this episode and you can then look them up in a dictionary – and you can try Oxford, Cambridge, Macmillan or Collins dictionaries online. They’re all freely available, which is nice. Now I’m going to just read out each phrase and you can try to notice them as they come up naturally in our conversation.
old habits die hard – it just goes to show that old habits die hard
the love interest – she plays the love interest in the movie
a hen-do – there was a group of girls on a hen-do sitting on the front row
a stag-do – there was a group of lads on a stag-do in the audience
a mixed bag – how was the show? It was a bit of a mixed bag to be honest
self-deprecating – we make lots of self deprecating jokes
a bit hit and miss – the show was a bit hit and miss
inconsistent – it was quite an inconsistent show
bland – it was a bit bland and boring
“I died on my arse” – he absolutely died on his arse on stage at the show last night
to slag someone off – We used to slag off the entire audience in our show
to bad-mouth someone – we bad-mouth the audience at the beginning of the show
it’s frowned upon  – being brutal with a hen-do is frowned upon, you’re not supposed to do it, whereas it’s ok to insult a stag-do
a sash – there was a girl on the front row wearing a sash
the first album I ever bought – “Smurfs Go Pop” was the first album I ever bought
anthropomorphic – Smurfs are quite anthropomorphic
the gestation period – humans have a 9 month gestation period
promiscuous – everyone says she’s quite promiscuous
to beat around the bush – don’t beat around the bush, just say it straight
to cast aspersions – I don’t mean to cast aspersions on Smurfette
to hear something
to hear about something
a squid / a giant squid
tentacles – they have ten tentacles, whereas Octopuses have 8 limbs
10 inches in diameter – their eyes are 10 inches in diameter
a beak = what birds have at the end of their faces – like the mouth of a bird, or a squid
your eyes are too big for your stomach
dismal = terrible
to come in third place – Paul is coming in a dismal 3rd place
So, that’s it for the vocabulary and this introduction, let’s now join the conversation I had with Alex Love yesterday afternoon, watch out for the vocabulary and see what you can learn about hen dos, stag dos, male and female strippers, the Smurfs and giant squid. There’s a bit of swearing – so you have been warned.
That’s it for part 1. Did you notice all the vocabulary I listed at the beginning?
In part 2 we do a pub quiz in which we ask each other various questions, including some questions about the English language. So, if you want to know what our questions are, and who wins, check out part 2 now!
Thanks for listening.
Join the mailing list.
Check out audible and italki
Send a donation if you want to say thanks.
Have a good day, night, morning, evening, afternoon, bus journey, train journey, gym session, walk, nap, jog or sleep.
Speak to you in part 2.
Luke
