2016/12/16
A rambling conversation with Amber about Christmas and more!

[DOWNLOAD]
It’s the festive time of year again. Christmas is just about a week away. Obviously, this is an important time in the UK and in many other places, so here is the annual LEP Christmas episode.
I’ve got a lovely fire going here. It’s all warm and cosy. The conditions are perfect.
It’s a now a bit of a tradition on this podcast to do an episode devoted to the subject of Christmas every year, so that’s what you’re going to get in this episode. It’s going to be a massive Christmas-themed rambling chat with the one and only Amber Minogue!
We’re going to talk about many things, including our plans for this year, the things we usually do at Christmas, our memories of childhood and growing up, spending christmas with kids and whether you should tell children the truth about Father Christmas, how it feels to work on Christmas Day, weird Christmas routines in my family, the rules of stupid games we play at Christmas, dodgy dad-jokes and Christmas crackers and plenty of other tangents and stories.
I wonder what you’re doing at this time of year? How do you usually spend the Christmas period? Is it an important time of year in your country, in your family or for you as an individual?
It would be interesting to compare your version of Christmas wherever you are in the world, with the sort of Christmas that we have. So, while you listen to us rambling on in this episode, think about the similarities or differences between your Christmases and our Christmases, and perhaps leave a comment on the page for this episode so you can share how it is for you.
This is quite a long episode, but do listen all the way until the end because I have some other little announcements and things to say, which I will tell you after this mega chat with Amber is finished.
There’s no need for me to say anything more as an introduction. So, without any further ado, here is my super-festive Christmas MEGA-rambling CHAT with Amber Minogue.
Christmas Cracker Jokes
www.telegraph.co.uk/comedy/what-to-see/50-best-christmas-cracker-jokes/
What do you call a cake that sits in a cupboard watching all the other cakes?
A mince spy. (a mince pie / spy – ha ha)
What do you get if you cross Santa with a duck?
 A Christmas Quacker! (a Christmas cracker / quacker – ha ha)
How did Scrooge win the football game?
 The ghost of Christmas passed! (the ghost of Christmas past / to ‘pass’ a ball in football)
So, that was Amber and me talking about our versions of Christmas.
What do you think?
What are the differences to the ways you spend Christmas? Share your thoughts in the comment section.
Other Chrimbo episodes that you might want to enjoy (just in case this one isn’t enough!)
Christmas – It’s all about Family (with James Thompson) – talking about all sorts of random stuff, not all of it about Christmas.
teacherluke.wordpress.com/2012/01/23/christmas-its-all-about-family/
A Cup of Christmas Tea with Paul Taylor – missing Paul’s voice? Listen to this episode – it was the first time he came on the podcast and we talked about Christmas as well as other things.
teacherluke.wordpress.com/2013/12/23/158-159-a-cup-of-christmas-tea-with-paul-taylor/
The A-Z of Christmas (With Raphael Miller) – Everything you need to know about Christmas culture in the UK, with Raph from Liverpool.
teacherluke.wordpress.com/2013/12/24/160-the-a-to-z-of-christmas/
Merry Christmas + other news
245. Merry Christmas! (+ Other News) + Video!
A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens – I tell you a classic Christmas story written by Charles Dickens
320. A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens
I think I will be uploading one more episode before the Christmas holiday arrives, so I might wish you a proper Merry Christmas then, but if I don’t get the chance to do that, then MERRY CHRISTMAS. I hope you manage to get your shopping done, your gifts wrapped and all your food prepared.
ANOTHER LEPSTER GET-TOGETHER
MOSCOW LEP Conversation Club
This Sunday 18 December, 4pm-6pm, Wooden Door anticafe
FB Event link www.facebook.com/events/633385513500698/
VK link vk.com/clubnu1
Join the MAILING LIST!
Thank you for your messages!
I appreciate your responses to my work and your messages of thanks. It’s always nice to here from you.
Donations
If you’re feeling festive and generous and you’re thinking of expressing your gratitude to me somehow – you could make a donation to LEP.
There will probably be another episode up before Christmas, so I’ll speak to you again in that one.
But for now – BYE!
