2017/01/05
Listen to my uncle Nic telling some stories about British rock stars he has met over the years, including an encounter with one of the most famous musicians in the world!

[DOWNLOAD]
In this episode I’m going to play you another conversation which I recorded during the recent Christmas holiday. In this one you’re going to hear my brother and me talking to our uncle Nic about some of the amazing rock stars that he’s met over the years.
Nic has always been a huge fan of rock music and because he was born in the early 1950s he saw many of Britain’s greatest rock stars performing live on stage quite early in their careers. I’m talking about the late 1960s, throughout the 70s and beyond.
So, Nic has met a lot of musicians at gigs but he also just has a knack for bumping into rock stars in normal everyday situations and then being very cool, calm and casual in their company. It’s almost like they’re on the same wavelength or something.
Anyway, my brother and I have always enjoyed hearing Nic’s anecdotes and I’m very glad to have recorded some of those stories for this podcast.
If you’re a fan of rock music, especially some of the classic bands of the 60s and 70s then I’m sure you’re going to be impressed by some of the people my uncle has met, talked to, and even had breakfast with.
And there is one person in particular that he once bumped into – who is not only a bonafide legend of the music world, but also just one of the most famous people on the planet today. Any idea who that is? Well, to find out just listen on.
So, here’s a chat with my Uncle Nic, with some help from James.
I say “help” from James, what I mean is that he just takes over the interview at one point because he thinks he can do a better job than me, and maybe he’s right. Anyway, that’s enough rambling… here’s the conversation.
Thank you very much to Uncle Nic and belated happy birthday to him too.
Let us know what you think, and which one you think is the most impressive story. Because they are impressive stories, aren’t they. Come on! Paul McCartney of The Beatles. Pink Floyd! Fast Eddie from Motorhead!
[socialpoll id=”2411231″]
I realise there will be people out there who don’t really know a lot of the people we were talking about. I’m sure you know Paul McCartney, but you might not know The Who, Motorhead, Pink Floyd (hard to imagine), The Damned, Slade…
And I’m sure there are others too, not necessarily in the toilet but in other situations, but who knows.
The Who – Pete Townshend, Keith Moon, Roger Daltry, John Entwistle
www.youtube.com/watch?v=sanAHVITCDY
Motorhead – “Fast Eddie” & Lemmy
Free “All Right Now” live at The Isle of White Festival (1970) 
Paul McCartney & Wings “Junior’s Farm” (Nic’s favourite)
Pink Floyd recorded at Live 8, Hyde Park in 2005
Slade in 1973 
The Damned
