2017/03/21
Interviewing Paul Taylor about his comedy projects, including “What the F*ck France” on Canal+ / Youtube and his stand-up shows #Franglais and The Paul Taylor Comedy Night. Video available.

[DOWNLOAD]
Hello! Welcome to another episode of the podcast!
There’s a video for this one – you can see it on the website or on YouTube.
In this one you are going to listen to a conversation with my friend Paul Taylor.
Before that I would like to make an announcement. I’ve got some good news and also I need your help with something!
LEP has been nominated in the British Podcast Awards for the “Listeners Choice Award”.
If I’m going to stand a chance of winning I need every single one of you out there to vote!
How to vote
A few days ago Paul came over and we sat on the terrace to do a podcast. I thought I would interview him all about his TV show and find out how it’s all going.
We talked about his writing process for the show “What the F*ck France?”, about how the success of the show has changed his life in some ways, about the reactions he gets from people he meets these days – including people who recognise him in the street or on public transport, about the differences between performing on video and performing in front of a live audience on stage and about his plans for other projects in the future.
I also asked him a few questions sent in by listeners on the website.
Do you remember a couple of years ago, you’d come back from the fringe, and we talked about some dodgy reviews?
Now you’re successful with the TV show and the web series.
Has it changed your life?
Do you get noticed?
Do you prefer doing the videos or the stand up?
What’s your favourite episode?
What are the topics you’ve covered?
Chris Benitez
What are you doing next, and are you going to do WTF for other countries?
Laura Fisher
Paul speaks fluent french, ask him to pronounce this tongue twister : ” Un chasseur sachant chasser sans son chien est un bon chasseur ” Amber could try this too. 
Cristina Ricciardo
I’d like they to tell about their very first performance. Good luck to you all!
Jack
Hello Paul hello Amber, how art you guys
 My question is when and where did you first meet King ?
 King please film this episode if possible, fanks.
What the F*ck France – Videos
