2017/09/09
The holiday diary continues and in this chapter we visited Bel Air in L.A. and so here is an analysis of the lyrics to Will Smith’s rap from “The Fresh Prince of Bel Air”, a famous TV show (and a very serious piece of work, haha) from the 90s which was set in Bel Air itself. Topics covered: TV pop culture, racial politics, slang English.

[DOWNLOAD]
By the way, these are flapjacks, just in case you were wondering. Yum.
Flapjacks (these ones are made with honey, oats and peanut butter) Click the pic for the recipe.
Did you get The Fresh Prince of Bel Air on TV in your country?
I used to watch the TV show a lot when I was younger (in the 90s).
Yes, the Fresh Prince is American English but I consider it also to be global English and you should too. Also, I think everyone should know or at least be able to repeat one or two of the lines from this rap, right?
So let’s listen to it and analyse some of the lyrics.
It’s not even a great rap, that’s the thing! It’s just a laugh! It’s not exactly the Wu Tang Clan or anything… Anyway…
Summary of the story 
This rap basically sets up the scenario of the show. Did you work out the details of the story?
Will Smith is an ordinary guy from a rough part of Philadelphia. The area where he lives is too rough and dangerous, so his mum decides he has to move in with his aunt and uncle, who happen to live in Bel Air, in Los Angeles. The aunt and uncle are rich and successful. The uncle (Uncle Phil) is a top lawyer. This is obviously possible, but quite rare.
Is it just a funny TV show, or is it about race relations and racial politics in the USA?
I’m not sure I am fully qualified to talk about racial politics in the USA. The fact is, despite the American dream which says anyone can make it, it appears to be much harder for a black guy to become a millionaire than for a white guy to do it. I’m not saying why that is, I’m just saying it. In fact, I’m reporting it as something I’ve heard Chris Rock say, so fine – not my words, the words of Chris Rock.
“Don’t hate the player, hate the game”.
“You don’t get plaques for getting rid of plaque.” (two meanings of the word ‘plaque’ – listen to hear the explanations)
“The black man gotta fly to get something the white man can walk to.”
“I had to host the Oscars to get that house.”
Listen to the episode to hear my language analysis and some comparisons with British English.
I’ll tell you which bits of vocab are “standard” (i.e. not specific slang – the stuff everyone should know) and “slang” (i.e. the stuff that’s more specific to the informal English you might hear from Will Smith or the social group of the time)
Fresh Prince of Bel Air – Rap, Long version
Now, this is a story all about how
 My life got flipped, turned upside down
 And I’d like to take a minute
 So just sit right there
 I’ll tell you how I became the prince of a town called Bel Air
In west Philadelphia born and raised
 On the playground was where I spent most of my days
 Chilling out, maxin‘ relaxin’ all cool
 And all shootin some b-ball outside of the school
 When a couple of guys who were up to no good
 Started making trouble in my neighborhood
 I got in one little fight and my mom got scared [UK – mum, USA – mom]
 She said ‘You’re movin’ with your auntie and uncle in Bel Air’
I begged and pleaded with her day after day
 But she packed my suit case and sent me on my way
 She gave me a kiss and then she gave me my ticket.
 I put my Walkman on and said, ‘I might as well kick it‘.
First class, yo this is bad
 Drinking orange juice out of a champagne glass.
 Is this what the people of Bel-Air living like?
 Hmmmmm this might be alright.
But wait I hear they’re prissy, bourgeois, all that
 Is this the type of place that they just send this cool cat?
 I don’t think so
 I’ll see when I get there
 I hope they’re prepared for the prince of Bel-Air
Well, the plane landed and when I came out
 There was a dude who looked like a cop standing there with my name out
 I ain’t trying to get arrested yet
 I just got here
 I sprang with the quickness like lightning, disappeared
I whistled for a cab and when it came near
 The license plate said “FRESH” and it had dice in (on) the mirror
 If anything I could say that this cab was rare
 But I thought ‘Nah, forget it’ – ‘Yo, holmes to Bel Air’
I pulled up to the house about 7 or 8
 And I yelled to the cabbie ‘Yo holmes, smell ya later‘
 I looked at my kingdom
 I was finally there
 To sit on my throne as the Prince of Bel Air
Songwriters: SMITH, WILLARD C. / TOWNES, JEFFREY
Fresh Prince Of Bel-Air lyrics © Universal Music Publishing Group
We drove around in Bel Air for a bit looking at houses like weird stalkers.
They’re huge and ostentatious (displaying wealth, showing off).
You get the impression that these people live in a bubble.
We came across Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s house which is unfinished.
Apparently they’re having problems with their neighbours who claim the house is obstructing their view.
I am not surprised because it is a but of a  monstrosity.
Apparently they are getting sued by the neighbours or something. I think they’re claiming that it’s interfering with their enjoyment of their property.
Driving back down we went past another massive house and we could see helicopter rotor blades above the hedge. Someone’s got a helipad on their property. Mental.
Then we swung past the Scientology buildings again on the way home.
