2018/03/01
In this episode you can hear me chatting to Fred Eyangoh and Alex Quillien and discussing various topics including growing up in different countries, recognising different accents in English, religious backgrounds, movie re-boots, Arnold Shwartzenegger going “nyarrrgh” and more. Fred and Alex are both stand-up comedians living in Paris who perform in English. Check them out at shows at Paname Art Cafe, including the Paris Open Mic (with Vanessa Starr) and French Fried Comedy Night.
[DOWNLOAD]
This episode is called “What’s on the table? (with Fred and Alex)”
I’m joined by Fred Eyangoh and Alex Quillian.
First we’re going to just get to know them a bit – we already know Fred from his appearance on the podcast in episode 430.
Then, the whole “What’s on the table?” concept – which sounds like a concept but actually it’s not really. 
I know what you’re thinking. What is the concept of “What’s on the table?” Luke? 
Well…
I’ve written some questions and topics onto pieces of paper and then placed them face down on the table.
We’re going to flip them over one by one and discuss the heck out of them. That’s it.
I was also thinking of calling it “Discuss THIS” – like in a movie or something.
Like – “You feeling hungry? EAT THIS” Boom.
Or “You want to watch something? WATCH THIS”
But I’ve chosen “What’s on the table?” (with Fred and Alex)
And we have some topics which are on the table for discussion.
That’s an expression by the way. 
If something is “on the table” it means it has been put forward for discussion.
www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/on-the-table
E.g. in a business meeting 
I wouldn’t wait too long to accept the job offer—it might not be on the table for very long.
Before this meeting begins, we’d like to make sure that the topic of salary bonuses is going to be on the table.
Our best offer is on the table.
In this case:
What’s on the the table for discussion today?
You can also use the word ‘table’ as a verb. It’s a bit formal. It means present something for discussion. E.g. to table a motion – to formally put forward a topic for discussion or perhaps a proposal for a new law.
I have to say these things, because it’s a learning English podcast.
That’s in British English.
In American English, it means the opposite. It means “shelved” – postponed until later.
The healthcare bill has been put on the table until the Spring.
This topic has been tabled for later discussion.
That’s American English.
But we speak British English here, or at least I do.
Types of English – that’s one of the points which is on the table I believe. We’ll come back to it.
Listen to the whole episode to hear Fred, Alex and me discussing various topics including – learning English, accents, religion, films, Arnold Schwarzenegger going “nyarrrgh!” and more!
Alex & Fred
