2018/06/06
Test yourself and learn various verbs and nouns related to crime. Features some amusing chat and anecdotes with Moz from the Murder Mile True Crime Podcast. Transcripts and vocabulary available.

This episode is a chance for you to test your knowledge and probably learn some new vocabulary relating to crime.
In the last episode I talked to my friend Moz who, as we know, does a true crime podcast and organises murder-themed walking tours in London.
I thought that since we’ve been talking about crime, that I’d prepare a crime vocabulary quiz and use it to test Moz’s knowledge of different types of crime.
I’ve created a word list with nouns and verbs – names of crimes, the verbs associated with them and also what we call people who commit those crimes.
You can see the word list on the page for this episode if you want to have a look.
Otherwise, you can just listen on and see if you can guess the names of these crimes as well as their associated verbs and nouns.
This episode contains some swearing but none of the explicit imagery that we had in the last episode.
I’m focusing on general English here – the kinds of words that people generally use to talk about crimes. When talking about crime and crime there’s a wide range of vocabulary that exists. Some of it is the sort of official language used by the police or by the justice system, and some are slang words used by ordinary people.
The main aim here is to present the vocabulary that I think most people know and that most people use when talking about crime in general life. There is a lot more vocabulary on this topic of course, so there’s always more which I can cover in later episodes.
But let’s start now and you can see how many of these words you know, and don’t forget to check out the website if you want to see the list of crime words that come up in this episode. You can check their spelling, add them to your word lists and so on.
Right then – let’s get started!
The words are also written in lists below so you can copy+paste.
The old bill, the rozzers, the filth, bobbies.
www.victimsupport.org.uk/crime-info/types-crime
www.met.police.uk/stats-and-data/crime-type-definitions/
