2018/08/23
Talking about the creepy subject of eating insects, which might be the solution to many of the problems that humans face as a species. This episode includes discussion of eating habits, environmental issues and some insect-related idioms and expressions. Transcripts and vocabulary lists available. Bon appetit!
[DOWNLOAD]
Hello Lepsters! Here’s a new episode of this podcast which is dedicated to providing you with listening materials which are engaging, entertaining, educational and rich with language.
This episode is all about the creepy, yet potentially vital subject of eating insects.
It’s based on a couple of news stories, and also will contain some nice, chewy and nutritious bits of vocabulary and common expressions with words relating to insects and creepy crawlies, the environment, food and more.
And you thought English food was bad enough already – now this.
Grub Kitchen – the UK’s first insect restaurant has opened in Haverfordwest in Wales.
Dishes include: bug burgers, mealworms, grasshoppers and cheesy locust croquettes.
theconversation.com/bug-burgers-anyone-why-were-opening-the-uks-first-insect-restaurant-49078
Read the first 3 paragraphs, and the last paragraph.
“Waiter, there’s a fly in my …” is a typical joke in the UK. It’s like a cliched restaurant complaint and usually has a funny response from the waiter. “Waiter, there’s a fly in my soup”.
Waiter, what’s this fly doing in my soup?
Backstroke, sir.
My brother once found a fly in his cake in a restaurant in our home town. He complained and the waiter said “that’ll be extra sir”.
More www.indianchild.com/waiter_jokes.htm
Imagine if you didn’t realise it was an insect restaurant.
“Waiter, excuse me, there appears to be an insect in my salad.”
“Yes, that’s right, it’s the grasshopper salad. Would you like some salt and pepper, or should I say, wasp eyes and ant heads?”
What do you think?
What’s his recipe? (answer below)
Pan fry the locusts. Enhance the flavour with honey, a little bit of chilli, fry it in a little bit of butter.
Flavour of locusts: almost meaty, like a prawn. Effectively, they’re are basically a land prawn.
Pull the legs off. They tend to get stuck in the throat sort of.
Zingy, earthy…
#burgers and #bugs at the UK’s first #edibleinsect #restaurant: @grub_kitchen in #wales t.co/nLsyA4Cfks pic.twitter.com/fKAxve8Vun
— Charlotte Payne (@libertyruth) October 22, 2015
First evening service & @grub_kitchen is buzzing! @TYFAdventure @TYFgroup #yearofadventure pic.twitter.com/GrEX2ch50E
— Dr Beynon’s Bug Farm (@thebugfarmUK) October 30, 2015
Listen to this video from The Economist and try to identify some reasons why insects might be the answer to our problems. We’ll go through the language afterwards.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=euTBQOrpOmM
The world’s population is projected to reach 11 billion by the end of the century. Feeding that many people will be a challenge, and it is further complicated by the impact of climate change on agriculture. That is why some people advocate an unusual way to boost the food supply and feed people sustainably: by eating less meat, and more insects.
About 2 billion people already eat bugs. Mexicans enjoy chili-toasted grasshoppers. Thais tuck into cricket stir-fries and Ghanians snack on termites. Insects are slowly creeping onto Western menus as novelty items, but most people remain squeamish. Yet there are three reasons why eating insects makes sense.
First, they are healthier than meat. There are nearly 2,000 kinds of edible insects, many of them packed with protein, calcium, fibre, iron and zinc. A small serving of grasshoppers can contain about the same amount of protein as a similar sized serving of beef, but has far less fat and far fewer calories.
Second, raising insects is cheap, or free. Little technology or investment is needed to produce them. Harvesting insects could provide livelihoods to some of the world’s poorest people. (what a great job!)
Finally, insects are a far more sustainable source of food than livestock. Livestock production accounts for nearly a fifth of all greenhouse-gas emissions – that’s more than transport. By contrast, insects produce relatively few greenhouse gases, and raising them requires much less land and water. And they’ll eat almost anything.
Despite all this, most Westerners find insects hard to swallow. One solution is to use protein extracted from bugs in other products, such as ready meals and pasta sauces. Not having to look at the bugs, and emphasising the environmental benefits, might make the idea of eating insects a bit more palatable.
For more video content from The Economist visit our website: econ.st/1ytKwbp
Here are the reasons, based on a YouTube video from The Economist (video and transcript on my website, above). This bit has been paraphrased by me from the video.
I’d love it if the world embraced this idea and didn’t just go – “No, I don’t want it! Screw the planet! I’m not eating a worm!” It would be amazing if the whole human race just went with it and said “yep, this is fine. Bring on the insects, let’s get crazy! It’s dinner time!”
Because the thing is, you probably wouldn’t be eating insects the way they normally look. We’d harvest the insects and then basically turn them into a kind of protein powder which could be turned into all sorts of other things. Generic matter which could be made into a burger, mince meat, chicken nuggets or anything.
I can’t wait for McDonald’s to launch its first bug burger.
You could check the transcript (above) and repeat what you hear.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=euTBQOrpOmM
