2018/11/15
Another solo episode recorded in the new sky-pod. Talking about moving to the new flat, some podcast news, meeting Louis CK, WW1 remembrance, rock climbing and more… Some vocab is explained during the episode.
[DOWNLOAD]
Here’s another semi-prepared episode in which I’m not really teaching you anything specific (although bits of English might come up as usual) and I’m not talking about a particular topic or interviewing someone, I’m just rambling (and that’s rambling not rumbling) about some news and other things like that.
No episodes recently because no wifi
I know it’s possible to get access with a mobile connection, but I’ve used loads of my offer up already just since the internet was turned off, we downgraded my deal and all that. Normally I don’t use all my allowance, but this time I’ve been using it a lot to watch Netflix in the evening with my wife and stuff.
Why don’t you do more videos and put them on YouTube?
Casey Neistat (YouTube star) gets up between 4AM and 5AM every day. Nutter.
Welcome to the new sky-pod 
Describe the space, describe the move.
A Phrasal Verb a Day is back
In the LEP App and at www.teacherluke.co.uk/pv
10 episodes in the app and then future episodes will be premium. Either I make this series premium and continue doing it, or I don’t continue doing it.
Meeting Louis CK
Amber’s Guardian article www.theguardian.com/stage/2018/nov/08/louis-ck-paris-female-comic
Louis CK’s original statement
WW1 Remembrance
Peace is something that we must protect. Millions of senseless deaths. It must have felt like the world had turned to hell. Living in a wasteland of mud, gas and hideous horror and death every single day.
Dan Carlin’s Hardcore History – Blueprint for Armageddon 1
www.youtube.com/watch?v=YFMT_BVBBsA
My article on Our Paris Stories 
English Insights from Luke Thompson’s Sky-Pod
3 Years since the Paris attacks of November 2015
Attacks in Paris
#tuesdaythoughts #paris #13Nov pic.twitter.com/8jzEU77RsP
— Robert Hoehn (@roberthoehn) November 13, 2018
