2020/11/23
Listen to recordings sent in by listeners and vote for who you think should be on LEP.
[DOWNLOAD]
This is an episode about the WISBOLEP competition and it is your first chance to listen to recordings sent by listeners and vote for who you think should be on LEP.Just in case you haven’t heard previous episodes or you got abducted by aliens or something and you don’t know – WISBOLEP means “Why I should be on LEP” and it is a competition which I launched in episode 681 as a way to invite one LEPster onto the podcast to be interviewed in a full episode.Also thank you if you listened to me talking in episode 687 about the possible options (options 1- 4) for the next stage of this competition, and thank you to those of you who gave your input in the form of comments and emails. After thinking about it, scratching my head and trying my best to do this in the most fair way possible I have now made my decision about how to proceed with the competition.In the end I’ve gone for a combination of Option 3 and Option 4 which I outlined in episode 687. I just decided that this was the best way to do it, and I’ve made my decision and I’m sticking to it.  Here is that decision.
I’m being the judge for round 1 – in fact I’ve already done it. 
I have now listened to all the recordings in round 1 (and there were 101 recordings in total). I’ve listened to them all a few of times, and I’ve chosen 16 people who will go through to round 2. 
I made an executive decision and narrowed it down to 16. I think in episode 687 I said it would be 20 recordings, but I decided even that 20 would be a few too many and that I had to do my best to narrow it down even further to 16.
So, I’ve done the unenviable task of whittling down 101 entries to just 16 and these are the 16 people you can vote for – and you will be able to listen to their individual recordings a bit later in this episode, after I’ve done a bit of explaining.I must say, choosing 16 candidates out of 101 was not an easy decision to make at all, but I think that ultimately doing it this way is the best way. Why wasn’t it easy Luke? Why was it difficult?It wasn’t difficult to listen to them all. That was great. But the tricky part is that there were so many great recordings that I had to reject. The general standard of entries was really high this time, so while attempting to select just 16 people, I had to reject lots of entries which I still thought were really strong. 
I just know I am going to feel a strong urge to constantly apologise to the 85 people who I didn’t select. I’m really sorry you didn’t get picked, and you are probably going to hear me say that a few times as you listen to this.“It’s ok Luke – no need to apologise too much, we understand” 
Ah, thank you for saying that. It reassures me.
(No voting in round 1, me choosing the final 16 myself)The reason for that is that there were so many recordings that I couldn’t think of a fair way to organise it. If I’d asked you the audience to listen to all 101 recordings, it wouldn’t have worked.
There was no way I could run the competition fairly in that way, asking the audience to listen to every single one of the 101 recordings and then choosing one person from that long list. I don’t think people would have listened to all 101 recordings, and they might not have remembered them all if they did. So I think you can see that voting like that just wouldn’t work.So I had to be very selective myself first, which as I said, was not fun. Well – the selection process wasn’t fun. Listening to all the recordings from lovely LEPsters has been amazing (and you can still listen to them all – details in a minute).  But having to reject so many of them was not a pleasure for me. But, so be it.
Can I just be super clear then…
But Luke, what about the other 85 recordings? 
I have not just thrown away all those other recordings that I didn’t choose. I didn’t just throw them in the bin. I’ve published them all on my website and in the LEP App, and you can listen to them all if you want. And I highly recommend that you do that. You can listen to 85 LEPsters who are still very worthy of your attention, and there is some sumptuous video footage there too for you to enjoy while you listen.You will find all the recordings on the website in one long YouTube video (with timecodes so you can skip to different LEPsters quite easily if you like) and that video also includes a few little comments from me after each recording. Actually, this video turned into something amazing. Let me tell you about it. This is the WISBOLEP Round 1 video “85 Amazing LEPsters still worthy of your attention”. 
You can see the video at the bottom of this page.What happened was, I collected the 85 entries and then recorded myself playing them all one after the other, and I added little comments after each one. The whole track is about 3 and a half hours long and it’s just audio. The plan was to put it up on YouTube so I could embed it on the website page as an unlisted video. Originally I planned to just have a single static image on the screen (like my normal audio episodes on YouTube) but when I was editing it all together I thought “I wonder if I can find some video footage to accompany this recording?” So I found loads of stock video footage – video footage of things like British landscapes & monuments, street scenes in various parts of the UK, drone footage of the British countryside, some footage from other parts of the world. I collected over 3 hours of it and then added the audio track on top. The result is quite mesmerising. You can listen to all the 85 rejected recordings and my comments while gazing at stunning views of Scottish mountains, cosy English villages, the busy streets of London and other locations. I really recommend that you watch it. You will find that video embedded on the page for this episode (at the bottom). The link to the YouTube video is in the show notes for this episode, and I’m also adding the audio track into the LEP app, as an app-only episode, so you can listen in the app if you want, and you can pause and it will remember where you stopped just like a normal episode. So that’s the WISBOLEP Round 1 recordings “85 Amazing LEPsters still worthy of your attention”. No voting, but you can listen to them and I hope you do. The voices of 85 LEPsters from around the world who are charming, funny, who have little stories to share and who have had success in their English learning journeys. Link in the description, embedded video on the website page for this episode, audio in the app-only category in the LEP App. Check it out!
I hope you listen to all of this because I want you to know my decision making process, and also I really want you to listen to all the competition entries for round 2 in order to be able to vote.
I’m now talking about the 85 people who have not been chosen for round 2.First and foremost I want to say a big well-done to everyone who took part and sent me recordings. Seriously → Well done. You did really well. I am really impressed by the general standard this time.I really want everyone who sent me recordings to know that I am your fan, and that I hope that everyone who listens to this podcast – all the LEPsters – I hope that they actually choose to listen to all of the recordings that have been sent to me. It’s not difficult – the recordings are just a click away – as I outlined a moment ago. The responsibility to actually listen to all those other recordings is now over to you – the audience. It’s your choice.Again, those of you who sent me recordings, I want to say well done for going out of your comfort zone, making the effort and taking the time to do that. Even if you haven’t been selected for round 2, I want you to know that I think you are great. There are plenty of recordings that I didn’t pick which are still excellent. You are all interesting and inspiring for me. I wonder if I could do the same thing in French, so please know and remember that I’m proud of you and you deserve to feel really good about entering the competition in the first place. You probably want to know my reasons for choosing the 16 people, or not choosing 85 people. I’ll explain in a few minutes.Why 16, Luke? Why not 20 or even 25?The reason for choosing 16 is to make it much easier for all the LEPsters who will now have to choose their favourite in the next round. I think that limiting the number of people will make it much more practical for you the audience. Also, it will make the voting more fair. If there were too many people in round 2, it would be too difficult to listen to all the recordings, too hard to remember them all, and therefore too hard to choose. How did I choose the 16 people? What’s my criteria?
As a teacher I don’t like rejecting people – because my job is to be encouraging, to help build people’s confidence and maintain their motivation. As well as instructing people in the ways of the English language, and correcting people and so on, my job as an English teacher is also to give my students a confidence boost. So, it has not been great fun for me to essentially say “no” to 85 people. The criteria for my decision were simply these questions: (and I want you to think about these things when you come to vote for your favourites after listening to this episode fully).Who do I think would be a good guest on the podcast? Who would I like to hear more from? Who do I think my audience would like to hear more from?
This is based on more than just the standard of English on display.Ultimately, it’s about connection not perfection.It’s about what you say, not just how you say it.Here’s the thing. In the end, English is just a tool. It’s a tool that we use to communicate ideas, to help people, and to connect with people, to get things done.I wanted to reflect that in the choices I made and try to pick people who have particularly specific, insightful, inspiring or entertaining things to say.Now, I don’t mean that language ability is not important. Of course it is important because having sufficient control over the language helps you to achieve things in English – it helps you make connections, it helps you effectively communicate ideas. But remember that it’s the ideas, the connections, the enjoyment – these are the important things. So, to what extent are these things being achieved?
Who has insightful things that the audience might want to hear?Who can share some really useful or interesting things about learning English?Who has some interesting or entertaining stories to share?Who grabbed my attention?I keep saying this has been difficult because I’m worried that the people who didn’t make it to the final 16 – that you will feel like your recordings didn’t meet any of these criteria – but in many cases, they did. It was hard specifically because so many recordings did suggest insightful, interesting and entertaining things – but because I was forcing myself to narrow down the list to 16 I couldn’t pick them all. You will see that even with just 16 candidates it will be really hard to choose a favourite. You will almost definitely want to hear more from almost everyone and I’m sure there will also be people from the 85 recordings that didn’t qualify who you will also want to hear more from. 
I think that some of you probably expect me to give English assessments of the competition entries. You might want me to comment on things like the accent, grammar or vocabulary of each participant, perhaps giving level assessments.
Well, I am afraid that I am not able to do that. I’m not giving full responses/feedback to all the competition entries.
So if you are expecting to get an assessment of the English of each person, sorry – it’s not going to happen. 
That’s not the purpose of the competition, and I believe that kind of language assessment is a very personal thing, a complex thing and also a professional thing and since this is not a level-checking test, or an official English proficiency test, or an IELTS speaking exam or a level-placement interview that I might do at school, I’m not going to go through that process.
You’ve heard me explain my criteria for choosing candidates, and so that is all I am going to comment on.
I really want to encourage you to start developing your own sense of assessment, anyway. 
And by assessment I mean judging the quality of someone’s English.
Let me refer again to this idea that it’s all about successfully communicating ideas and emotions. The ability to grab people’s attention, make connections with people, to communicate ideas and feelings in a clear and concise way. 
This is the ultimate assessment of someone’s English. It’s the end result. Also, I am not going to do error correction at this stage. Some of you will hear errors and you’ll want them to be corrected. I understand that. I’m not doing error correction in these competition episodes, but I am planning to do it in a premium episode. I’ve been noting down certain language errors while listening in order to collate them and then I will record a language-oriented premium episode involving error corrections, but I will do it anonymously. I won’t name names. That’s just what I’ve decided to do and that is that. So, an anonymous error correction episode will arrive in the premium section after doing this competition.
So, from now onwards I would like you to turn down the volume on the “language judgement” part of your mind, and turn up the volume on the “community spirit” part. Let’s enjoy hearing from all these fellow LEPsters from around the world and look forward to hearing more from one of them in an upcoming conversation.
This is where you finally get the chance to listen to those 16 recordings and then vote.
I’m going to play them all to you in just a few minutes.
Simply this: Who do you want to hear more from?Do you want to know more about a particular person? Maybe they have hinted at a story that you’d like to hear. Maybe they have insights into learning that you’d like to hear about.Who would you like to hear talking to me in a full interview?Remember – it isn’t about who has the best English per se, although this may be a factor. It’s more about whose story you want to hear the most. Remember: Connection, not perfection. [Thanks “All Ears English Podcast” :) ]Who is the most the most intriguing, the most interesting, the most likeable, the most engaging, the most sincere, the most insightful or just the most enjoyable person to listen to? Who has the most potential for a good conversation with me?
Prepare to make a note (mental note or written note) of the people you want to choose. When you hear someone you might vote for, note down their name / nationality / other details.
Then go to the voting page and select the ones you noted. Yes I am saying “ones” and “people” because you will be able to vote for more than one person.
Here are the 16 recordings for round 2. These are the people you can vote for.
I will say the person’s Name & Nationality or any other remarkable features, and then their recording. 
I won’t make any other comments after them, because I don’t want to influence your decision. I will only say things to help you remember who you heard.
I am presenting them in alphabetical order by first name.
If you want to hear these recordings again, you can find them all on the page for this episode. Just go there [www.teacherluke.co.uk/wisbolep] and you can listen to them as many times as you like. You will find the audio and the voting form at the bottom of the page. You’ll need to scroll past the transcript I’m reading from. Remember, if you sent a recording and you’re not here (that’s most of you) – please do not feel too disappointed. It’s quite possible that your recording was also fantastic – but, you know, I forced myself to pick 16.  This is the way.Let’s start.*Play recordings – they’re all available at the bottom of this page, with the voting form*
It is possible to improve your English to a really good level in adulthood, and you can do it in your own way.
When the voting is closed on SUNDAY 6 DECEMBER AT MIDNIGHT (CET), we will see who has the most votes. 
If it’s a draw, I will cast the decisive vote.
The winner will be featured in a full episode. It’ll be a conversation between me and the winner.
I also plan to feature the two runners-up in an episode too (they’ll get half an episode each).Reminder: If you want to listen to those 16 people again, you can find the individual recordings on the page for this episode (with the voting form)
Well done to everyone for taking part in this competition.
I want to urge you to also check out the other recordings “WISBOLEP ROUND 1 – 85 LEPSTERS STILL WORTHY OF YOUR ATTENTION” (video below) and enjoy the nice views in the video.
Feel free to leave your comments in the comment section as usual.
For the 85 other LEPsters – I must say I am still curious about what they have to say and I think they could be very interesting to hear from. I have suggested that they record themselves and make the recording into a YouTube video which I can then share on the website. Perhaps if someone out there already has their own podcast or would like to start one they could consider interviewing some of the people who took part in this competition.
I will let you get in touch with each other in the comment section of this episode. Please feel free.
That’s it! Please vote, please listen to all the other recordings and please be excellent to each other!
[socialpoll id=”2701638″]
[DOWNLOAD Audio Version of WISBOLEP Round 1 – 85 LEPsters – 310MB]
