2021/09/22
LEP merch is now available, including t-shirts, mugs and more featuring special LEP designs made by James Thompson. Luke and James discuss the new designs and launch a new design competition to give you the chance to get your design in my merch store and a cash prize of £80.


[DOWNLOAD]
Hello listeners, it’s nice to be talking to you on this fine morning. I’m also joined by James, my brother.
If you’ve seen me on YouTube in a t-shirt with a magnificent LEP logo on the front of it, or drinking tea from a lovely looking mug with an LEP logo on it, or perhaps writing something down on my special LEP notepad, then you might be thinking…
Where can I get one of those t-shirts?Where can I get one of those mugs?
Where do I get one of those amazing pads?
Or even: How can I get one of my designs on some LEP Merch?
Your questions are finally being answered today, because the LEP merch store is back open, and I am launching a design competition to give you the chance to get your design on an LEP t-shirt, and a special cash prize of £80!
The merch store is now open. That’s where you can get t-shirts, sweaters, mugs, stickers and loads of other things with the LEP logo on, but also there are various other new designs which you should love if you are a LEPster. 
I suspect that you’re going to want more than just one of the things on offer for you today – In fact I’ve already ordered some and I am wearing one now.
In this episode I’m going to talk a little bit about the different merchandise available just to make sure it’s clear and that you understand everything.
Also in this episode I am launching a design competition – this is your chance to have your design on an official LEP t-shirt. Not only that, but there are cash prizes available too for the winners. I will explain more later.
My brother James is the one who did all the design work to produce the various images which are available across a range of products, so he is joining me for this one.
We’re going to talk about each design one by one, I’ll give you a little tour of the store to make sure you can use it properly, I will give you the full details of the LEP Design competition and then we’re going to open things out to have a larger conversation about merchandising and stories related to that.
Click on the design you like, then choose the products using the list on the left.\
Some t-shirts are double sided.
Check the different types of t-shirt available using the little drop-down menu (classic, heavy, tri-blend, etc)
TeePublic often does sales and discounts on their website.
I opened this store so Chinese & Russian LEPsters could buy merch too. The website is simple enough. It shows t-shirts in the thumbnail pictures, but check the list on the left to see all available products. 
Various types of t-shirt are available. 
RedBubble doesn’t do double sided t-shirts.
Avoid buying dark designs on a dark colour t-shirt (although personally I think an LEP Ninja design on a black tri-blend t-shirt looks really cool)
Let me know what other ideas or changes you’d like to make to the store, and I will see what I can do. So, if you have any other design ideas, or suggestions for things you’d like to see in the store, or changes you’d like to make – let me know. luketeacher@hotmail.com
We are looking for cool t-shirt designs by LEPsters, for the LEP Merch Store. 
James and I will consider all designs which are sent to me, and a selection of designs will be displayed on the website so you can leave your comments. James and I will also discuss them in a podcast episode. 
Ultimately, James and I are the judges and we make the final choice on the winner(s).
